# Working With James

If I sent this to you, we're probably starting to work together. Hello! I'm
super excited to learn more about you and to define our professional
relationship together.

This is my operating manual. Use it to learn how I (ideally) work, how to
maximize my utility to you, and how to debug me when I break.

## It is my job to:

1. Help you be _more_ awesome.  
I care about you. First as person, second as a team mate, and way off in last
place as an employee. I believe you have unique strengths, and that you will be
happiest and most productive in a position where you can use and grow those
strengths. You might not be in that position now; we can change that. That
position might not exist; we can change that too.  
I want to know what you're best at. I want you to know what you most enjoy
doing. I will try to maximize the time you spend doing those things. We'll talk
about this a lot during 1 on 1 meetings.

2. Create shared context.  
I expect you to make your own decisions. To make good decisions, you need
context. Because we function as a team, yet we all make our own decisions, it is
vital that we share as much context as possible.  
I do my best to find differing contexts and unify them. This might be
communicating strategy from senior leadership, or simply telling two people they
need to talk to each other.

3. That's it.  
I do a lot of other stuff. Sometimes I even code. I consider that work secondary
to my _actual_ job.

## Meetings

Every week we'll have a 1 on 1 meeting. This is your time to talk with me about
any topic you like. Tell me about your pets. Get feedback on a new idea. You can
even give me status updates if you really want. The intention is to use this
time to build mutual trust and understanding. Our relationship will need those
during times of stress. I will usually have a few things to ask you about during
1 on 1's, but the agenda is yours to set.

If you ever want to talk outside of this scheduled time, please do! See above
about what I consider my job. Here are some options:

1. Stop by my office. I'm usually interruptible, and I don't mind saying "later"
   in the rare cases I'm not.
2. Catch me while I'm walking around. I try to check in with everybody at least
   once a day.
3. Put something on my calendar. I keep it up to date. Pick any time that's
   free.
4. Slack me. I'll respond as soon as I can.

## How I Communicate

I have a lot of ideas. Some of them are even good ideas. I often need help
figuring out which are the ideas worth keeping. Push back when I suggest things.
Ask questions. Help me refine the idea and ensure I'm not missing something
important. You bring a different perspective to conversations that I value and
want to utilize.

I follow the philosophy of "strong beliefs, weakly held." I expect you to follow
this philosophy as well (at least at work). This means I expect you to advocate
strongly for your ideas. I also expect you to _listen_ when you are challenged.
And I expect you to be ready and willing to change your mind. Do not equate
people with their ideas. When someone challenges your idea, they are not
challenging you. When you challenge someone else's idea, do not challenge
_them_. Robust debate from multiple perspectives is a necessity for finding the
best ideas. Trust and psychological safety are necessary for any truly open
conversation.

I prefer to think out loud. It helps me to process things verbally. This can
lead to a lot of high level "what if" conversations. I will try to make "you
should do this" statements explicit, so don't leave a "processing ideas"
conversation thinking you have marching orders. When in doubt, ask.

I prefer to give suggestions rather than dictate directions. I will try to make
constraints and goals explicit, but leave the details up to you. I will
sometimes make suggestions on the details based on my experience. They are just
suggestions. Push back when you disagree. As always, ask questions.

I think in systems. That means the long-term is usually more important to me
than the short-term. I will reject a good short-term solution if it doesn't fit
with our long-term goals and vision. I will also reject a good long-term
solution if it doesn't provide short-term benefits. That means I will rarely
support full rewrites of working software. It also means I'm constantly looking
for ways to tie large infrastructure improvements to smaller, exciting, "quick
win" projects. I only eat elephants one bite at a time.

## How I Work

It's OK to fail. It's more than OK; it's expected. If you aren't regularly
failing, you aren't aiming high enough. That said, you also need successes. At
least occasionally.

I like to structure work as small experiments as much as possible. I will move
ideas into a concrete form that can be tested as soon as possible. Keep what
works. Replace what doesn't. Always stay focused on making things better.

Ask me what "Ready, Fire, Aim, Fire, Aim, Fire" means. It's an interesting
story and a good metaphor for evaluating risk in an agile environment.

## Some Quirks

Ask me for help, don't tell me what to do. It's a much better way to engage me.
I have a pathological need to help other people, and I respond very poorly to
being told what to do.

I need context before I can start. I'm great at listening and at asking
questions to get that context. If you can't provide enough context, expect the
questions. Make sure you leave enough time for that. I literally won't be able
to help until I understand the scope of the problem I'm trying to solve.

I'm not confrontational. I'm working on this. Pay attention when I tell you
something might be a bad idea. It's the closest I usually get to saying "stop,
you're making a big mistake." This is especially important if you're my boss.

I'm horrible at micromanaging. I'm competent at keeping my own todo list
straight, but that's my limit. Don't expect me to keep track of your work for
you. I *will* put systems in place to ensure you're accountable to your team
and that you're clear on what you should be working on next. Beyond that, I
expect you to take responsibility for your own work, to ask for help when you
need it, and to drive things to completion.

I believe in transparency, openness, and honesty. I love answering questions
almost as much as I love asking them. That said, I'm not great at pushing
information everywhere it needs to go. I'm too hesitant to interrupt people for
trivial reasons. I'm working on this, too. Please ask questions. Let me know
when something is unclear.

I strongly believe in hiring the right people, then optimizing for (programmer)
happiness. There are other things that are worth optimizing for. I believe this
one leads to the best outcomes across the board.

If I'm physically in my office, my light will be on. If I'm off site or gone for
the day, my door will (usually) be closed. Stop by any time.

## That's All

Thanks for reading! I'm really looking forward to working together and getting
to know each other.

Source: https://github.com/masonjm/manager-readme
